Blog: ClickHouse vs Druid (#4912)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/clickhouse-vs-druid.md

---
date: 2023-01-10

> title: "Introduction: ClickHouse vs Druid"

Author: I was debating whether this was sufficiently "in-depth" for that kicker. We don't go into performance much here, but if people are comfortable with in-depth we'll go with this.

> title: "Introduction: ClickHouse vs Druid"

Reviewer: Don't have a strong opinion, but this feels like an in-depth on clickhouse vs druid rather than an intro to both.

rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
author: ["mathew-pregasen"]

> featuredImage: ../images/blog/posthog-engineering-blog.png

Reviewer: ```suggestion
featuredImage: ../images/blog/clickhouse-vs-postgres/postgres-vs-clickhouse.png
```

Reviewer: This is again "OLAP Databases Explained"

featuredImageType: full
categories: ["Engineering", "Guides"]
---

> Contrary to what the names might suggest, ClickHouse isn’t an TikTok influencer house and Druid isn’t (just) a D&D character class – they're both OLAP databases designed to store lots of data. 

Reviewer 2: Honestly the 'TikTok influencer house' reference made me cringe and die a little inside... (the Druid reference is legit though)

> Contrary to what the names might suggest, ClickHouse isn’t an TikTok influencer house and Druid isn’t (just) a D&D character class – they're both OLAP databases designed to store lots of data. 

Author: Keeping it in 😅

Here's what that looks like in practice:

![ClickHouse architecture diagram](../images/blog/clickhouse-vs-druid/clickhouse-architecture.png)  

What is a materialized view? A materialized view, unlike a normal view, is a separate table of data generated at a specific point of time from the base tables. When you query a normal view, the view is re-queried before being queried from.

While Postgres, a row-based OLTP database, supports materialized views, they aren’t good for dynamic data since refreshing them is expensive. ClickHouse uniquely can efficiently update materialized views upon new data within a delay threshold. 

Granted, dynamic materialized views aren’t exactly an architectural element in the same way RAM, CPU, and Disc are. But they impact how architecture is used. 

Most databases achieve speed by caching calculated results after an initial slow query. ClickHouse’s materialized views do the heavy-lifting ahead of time, and are constantly updating so that they’re never ***too*** out-of-date. This is a happy medium for a lot of data-driven applications, and contributes to ClickHouse's reputation for extremely fast query performance on large datasets.

> - **Apache Zookeeper:** ClickHouse does admit a flaw in its single executable promise. If the database is expected to have replicas, it requires Apache Zookeeper to manage the redundancies. However, this is a rather thin layer atop of a ClickHouse cluster, and something that most databases require.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Apache Zookeeper:** ClickHouse does admit a flaw in its single executable promise. If the database is expected to have replicas, it requires Apache Zookeeper to manage the redundancies. However, this is a rather thin layer atop of a ClickHouse cluster, and a problem being addressed with the introduction of [ClickHouse Keeper](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/clickhouse-keeper/). 
```

![Druid architecture diagram](../images/blog/clickhouse-vs-druid/druid-architecture.png)  

Druid is built for massive applications with unique data streaming needs. For instance, imagine an application that needs to take the last stock trade into account before returning a value. 

ClickHouse would stumble with this – ClickHouse doesn’t guarantee newly ingested data is included in the next query result. Druid, meanwhile, does – efficiently, too, by storing the newly streamed data temporarily in the data nodes whilst simultaneously packing and shipping it off to deep storage. 

Remember that analogy between the mansion and master-plan community? For Druid, the query nodes are the roads, the data nodes are the houses, and storage is the sprawling, shared lake. 

#### Cattle vs Pets

Druid expects you to treat its nodes like cattle, constantly removing and adding nodes at a whim. You would never do that with ClickHouse instances since each ClickHouse instance likely plays a critical role in your application’s stability. Druid, meanwhile, expects you to utilize up to ten thousand data nodes, each which could be taken offline and maintained without impacting the application.  

> Of course, this means that Druid requires more maintenance work. **Much** more maintenance work. Not just that, but server costs, too. Druid is built for large enterprise clients with complex needs and massive financial backing to support the architecture. ClickHouse, meanwhile, is a one-size-fits-most solution; scalable, just not in the same multidimensional, multi-structural way as Druid is.  

Reviewer 3: Note you may upset some people with this. If done well treating your infrastructure like cattle can actually be easier to operate as compared to treating your infra as pets. The criticism that you may get is that we are doing things wrong here. The work that infra is working on currently is to make our clusters more like cattle than pets

Author: Are there any changes you'd suggest, such as a note to say we recognise the argument to be made here? I can live with a little controversy, but it normally makes sense to acknowledge it!

You can consider this approach somewhat similar to the philosophy behind ClickHouse’s dynamic materialized views, however, the end deliverable is different. ClickHouse is able to calculate results that utilize the entire database minus recent data (such as an all-time average) without buffering the entire database into memory. Druid, meanwhile, is able to return the **recent** data extremely fast. 

- **Caching:** Druid, like ClickHouse, enables you to cache query results. Druid users can cache results of an entire query or a segment of a query.

- **Prioritization (Tiering):** One of Druid’s hallmark features is prioritization. While Clickhouse strives to make every query hypothetically efficient, Druid allows users to prioritize queries. Mission-critical queries can force low-priority queries to pause / get delayed. This is an ideal feature for applications where the most expensive queries are the least required to be fast.

## Use cases

> While ClickHouse and Druid both strive to solve the same problem, their shortcomings and strengths actually provides a strong case for when you should and shouldn’t use each. 

Author: ```suggestion
ClickHouse and Druid strive to solve the same problem, but they have unique strengths and weaknesses that make them ideal for different use cases.
```

- **Uber:** Uber [moved](https://www.uber.com/blog/logging/) its logging platform to ClickHouse, improving data compression and halving its infrastructure costs. Given that Uber needs to log a lot of geographical information during car rides, ClickHouse was the apt solution for streaming data.

### Which companies use Druid and why?

- **Airbnb:*** Druid enables Airbnb to analyze both historical and real-time metrics, returning data for Airbnb hosts quickly and interactively. Because Airbnb processes hundreds of transactions every minute, Druid enables them to return accurate pricing shifts efficiently.

- **Lyft:** Probably the best example on how Druid and ClickHouse **could** be used interchangeably with additional architecture is Uber’s cousin’s choice in Druid. Lyft utilizes Druid, with some [additional setup](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ovZ9iAkQllo), to achieve similar results as Uber has.

- **Rovio:** The makers of everyone’s favorite angry ducklings game, Rovio uses Druid to chop and pivot time-series dashboards filled with data from their millions of players.

## Summary

> Druid and ClickHouse are similar solutions solving the same problem with dramatically different designs. ClickHouse champions simplicity and a unified instance; Druid is complex but highly configurable. 

Author: ```suggestion
Druid and ClickHouse both seek to handle large volumes of data at speed, but they do so in completely different ways. ClickHouse champions simplicity and a unified instance; Druid is complex but highly configurable. 
```

While both offer enormous advantages over traditional databases for columnar data, companies should strongly consider their needs when making choice between the two. 

### ClickHouse

**Pros**

- Low latency
- Simple to set up, can operate out of a single instance
- Materialized Views expedite aggregations at the data level

> - Extremely fast query performance on large datasets

Reviewer 3: I would probably add a section talking about the variety of table engines on ClickHouse and compare that to what is available over in Druid land
https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/table-engines/

^ Kafka, Materialized Postgres, and others are really interesting here.
